Welcome back in this section we're going to introduce one of the larger editions the 20:17 async functions
Issing functions or asynchronous functions or a special kind of function that are created using the
word async.
The purpose of async functions is to simplify writing asynchronous code specifically with promises.
So how does it work when an async function is invoked.
A promise is returned to us and will resolve with whatever value is returned from the function.
So let's see what that looks like here.
We're using the async keyword before our function declaration.
And if we invoke the function a promise will be returned to us and we can then resolve that promise.
So there really isn't anything special here.
We didn't need the async keyword since the code we had inside of this function was synchronous in order
to see what makes async functions so special we need to introduce another keyword a weight a weight
as a reserve keyword that can only be used inside of async functions.
It pauses the execution of an easing function and is followed by a promise.
The sweet keyword waits for the promise to resolve and then resumes the async functions execution and
returns the resolve out.
You can think of the Awake keyword like a pause button.
What the wait keyword allows us to do is write asynchronous code that reads like its synchronous.
We can remove the hassle of nested callbacks promised chains for multiple yield statements and generator
functions.
So lets write a function that gets some movie data from the NDB API.
Here we have a function called Get movie data which canceled out logs starting and then awaits the resolution
of a promise and then prints all done and then some information about the movie.
If we run this function what order do you think we'll see our information printed out it will first
print out starting then all done and then the movie data.
Even though our AJAX call is entirely asynchronous.
The code we have written reads very synchronously through the use of async and away we don't need to
use dot then or any kind of callback function or yield keyword.
If we'd like we can also make async functions inside of objects by prefixing the method with the word
async and using as 2015 object method notation to write the function.
All we need to do is make sure we prefix the name of the function with the async keyword.
We can write the same syntax with callback functions as well.
We can also add async instance methods using the 20:15 class syntax.
Here's what that might look like.
Notice in the previous example we are prefixing our method name with the async keyword and then we can
create new objects from our movie data class and use this method.
This all seems great but we're making a dangerous assumption right now.
When using the Awake keyword we're assuming that all of our promises will be resolved successfully.
What happens if a promise is rejected since oh wait we'll wait for a promise to resolve.
What happens when things go wrong.
How do we handle an error.
Thankfully if a promise is rejected using a wave javascript will throw an error.
So to handle this error gracefully we can use a try catch statement inside of the try block.
We can place our awake keyword and if something goes wrong we can handle that in our catch block.
We can see in the function below that we're trying to get a user's information from the get hub API.
If we do not find a user successfully we'll get a 404 from the server.
In response that name will not be valid.
Thankfully our catch statement will handle that error and we will cancel out log.
The user does not exist if we invoke this function with a valid username.
You will get the full name of that user.
Otherwise will output.
User does not exist.
We just covered quite a bit.
So feel free to watch his video again at some of these code examples and review the slots in the next
video.
We'll talk a bit more about how to write code using async functions.
See there.